[Music]
ha yoga a new Shoshanna nameís teh
welcome to unravel the thread a podcast
for people who want to apply the Yoga
Sutras to yoga practice and to life
today available online at
www.noventri.com I am Ruben Vasquez your
companion on this journey of exploration
on today's episode yoga Sutra 1.8
misperception in this first chapter of
the yoga Sutra the second way of being
is error and the sutra says error the
pariah results from inaccurate
perception so this next way of being out
of the five listed in Sutra number five
this next way of being is to be mistaken
or to be in error as explained in verse
one point four not knowing your true
nature causes you to perceive yourself
as a temporary phenomena coming and
going through your internal systems as a
result you may get entangled in an
endless cycle either chasing after some
experiences that you like or by pushing
away what you dislike
another typical manifestation of
misperception is lack of awareness of
the gap between what you are doing and
what you think you are doing so just
when you claim that you are doing
something out of love but you do it
because of self-interest or when you
think you are trying to help somebody
but your and requested help is an
imposition on somebody else so that you
can feel better about yourself they what
is important to me exercise provides you
with one way of noticing if you are
acting in error you can try this
exercise this way
make a list of the things that are
important to you you may pause the
recording here to write your list then
write down your activities you in the
last week focusing on what deserved your
time attention energy and money pause
the recording here to write your list of
recent activities now compare the two
lists if the two lists much you're doing
what you claim is important to you if
the lists do not agree fully there is a
mismatch between what you think is
important and what you give enough
importance to motivate you to act please
keep in mind that most of us are walking
contradictions and that many of us will
find inconsistencies between what we say
and what we do this brings up the
question how can you create more
congruence between what you say and what
you do one way is to engage with the
questions explored in the previous
episode about Sutra 1.7 in addition you
can bring conscious awareness to your
actions by asking am i doing what I
think I am doing and then following
through to find out in addition to
uncovering our misunderstandings and
misconceptions it may be useful to
explore also what we don't know what we
don't know includes both what we know we
don't know as well as what we don't know
that we don't know it sounds like a
tongue twister when you visit a new city
quite likely you don't know many of the
places and ways to get around from one
location to another this is part of
they're known unknowns you know that you
don't know how to get around the city
this information may prompt you to find
a guide a map or a book to guide you
there are also unknown unknowns many of
us may know that photosynthesis is a
process plants used to synthesize energy
however we needed to explain the process
in detail many of us would discover that
we don't know that we didn't know the
specific details about the chemical
interactions involving photons from the
Sun carbon dioxide and water to what
extent are you aware of both your known
unknowns and your unknown unknowns
additionally misperception often happens
when you carry and resolve issues in
your heart such as regret and guilt
because those emotions tend to bias your
perception and cloud your ability to be
present finding ways to make lasting
peace with yourself and your past like
practicing forgiveness and compassion
can empower you to move forward and act
from a place of greater clarity and
emotional maturity recognizing that even
your mistakes have contributed to shape
your current life and learning from
previous erroneous actions offers you
valuable feedback to enhance the quality
of your current actions moreover in
order to prevent misunderstandings with
yourself and with others pay attention
to your thoughts words and actions to
ascertain if what you think is correct
and true then you are more likely to
know why you are doing what you are
doing as well as ensuring that you are
doing what you intend to be doing a word
about chanting chanting is a simple way
to be present because it asks you to
focus at the same time chanting allows
you to listen to the quality of your
breath in the steadiness of your voice
as you repeat
chant in a steady rhythm you may be able
to harmonize your internal activities or
ways of being of course you do not have
to assume or believe that this is true
the best way to find out if chanting
works for you is by trying you may try
chanting the Sutra in its traditional
way with all the words interacting with
one another the perio me karate or you
may chant each word individually to
learn each word which may spark some
curiosity to look up its meaning the
pariah
[Music]
Mikuru Protestant the pariah meet drew
our attention the pariah
Meechum drew Protestant the pariah media
numata Rupa Parata system the pariah
media
[Music]
at Andhra Pradesh tum' VIP area Media
Group Parata thank you very much for
listening I hope you can join me for the
next episode when we continue exploring
each individual Sutra next time Sutra 9
in chapter 1 please remember that you
can find more information at and Ravel
the thread comm I would appreciate it if
you could share this podcast with other
like-minded people thank you and until
next time namaste
you
[Music]